---
title: "Whatsapp chats can be a contract, says the high court."
description: "High court upholds that Whatsapp message formed a binding contract with a client."
date_posted: 2025-08-29
original_url: "https://theindependencyco.substack.com/p/whatsapp-chats-can-be-a-contract"
source: substack
layout: note
toplevelsubnav_url: /notes
toplevelsubnav_text: Notes
---

<p>Interesting news from the UK this week - <a href="https://www.lewissilkin.com/insights/2025/08/21/whats-up-with-whatsapp-contracts">a case in the high court</a> - where a client agreed to something in an whatsapp message, then tried to change their mind down the line - the judge upheld the original agreement is binding.</p><p>I have, for YEARS been saying freelancers should never work without a contract, and a text message here and there, even emails, where a client agrees to something isn't sufficient - a proper written contract is essential for your protection.</p><p>I've said this because I've seen to many clients try to wiggle out of things which they casually agree to, and then later claim they didn't - and having something formally signed felt a much stronger protection.</p><p>But this ruling upholds that a whatsapp message, or other casual conversations such as a slack DM or teams chat - can be upheld as a contract, providing all of the criteria which make a contract are in place (a clear offer, an acceptance of that offer, price or scope and intent).</p><p>This is a positive for freelancers, if you've had a conversation where your client has said you've got the work over a text, and then they walk that back or claim otherwise, you are more likely to have a contract in place which you could hold them accountable.</p><p>However, contracts work both ways - if you've said you'll do something over a text too, that means you might be held to that agreement as well. </p><p>The court also upheld that "we'll send a contract later" doesn't necessarily allow you to walk back what was agreed earlier in a later formalised agreement either, and that loose ambiguous wording can trip you up too.</p><h3><strong>What does this mean for freelancers?</strong></h3><p><strong>Good thing:</strong> If a client has agreed to something in a whatsapp, email, DM or similar, and it looks like a contract, it probably is a contract, and can be legally binding - giving you more protection if they try and get out of it later.</p><p><strong>Bad thing:</strong> If you agree to something in a whatsapp, that's a contract, and might be harder to get out of later! And also, in some ways, I worry that this means more freelancers will be okay "working without a formalised contract", assuming a whatsapp is sufficient.</p><p>However, if you do have a situation where there was no contract, but you do have a conversation where things are being agreed to - you may have a better chance at having that agreement defended in court. </p><p>Of course, this only really means if you're willing to take these sort of disputes to adjudication, take legal action or similar. If you're just having an argument with a client who refuses to accept that they've agreed to something, you might still have a hard time.</p><p>So, our recommendations lie unchanged - don't work without a formalised contract, which clearly outlines:</p><ol><li><p><strong>Who&#8217;s contracting</strong> (legal names)</p></li><li><p><strong>Scope &amp; outputs</strong> (clear deliverables, what&#8217;s excluded)</p></li><li><p><strong>Fees &amp; cadence</strong> (day rate or fixed, <em>one invoice per month</em>, expenses)</p></li><li><p><strong>Payment terms</strong> (<em>net 30 days from invoice</em>, interest on late)</p></li><li><p><strong>IP &amp; usage</strong> (when rights transfer; portfolio use)</p></li><li><p><strong>Confidentiality &amp; data</strong> (especially if handling client/customer data)</p></li><li><p><strong>Change control</strong> (how extras are approved and priced)</p></li><li><p><strong>Kill fee / termination</strong> (and what&#8217;s payable)</p></li><li><p><strong>Notices</strong> (where official notices/invoices must be sent)</p></li></ol><p>If a client is pushing to agree things in Whatsapp, encourage them to move over to email and sign things via a document, not chat, and certainly not a phonecall! If you must negotiate in DMs, prefix with <strong>&#8216;subject to contract&#8217;</strong> and move swiftly to a signed document.</p><p>Get into the habit of getting contracts in place for every project - a couple of hours of effort can save many days of headache down the line.</p><p>Check out our <a href="https://www.freelancing.support/resources/guide-to/contracts/">longer resource on contracts</a> over here, for signposting to what you should be including in a contract, and examples of boilerplate or templates you can build upon.</p>
