---
title: "Three Cs."
description: "Why it's not just about compliance and cost."
date_posted: 2025-06-19
original_url: "https://theindependencyco.substack.com/p/three-cs"
source: substack
layout: note
toplevelsubnav_url: /notes
toplevelsubnav_text: Notes
---

<p>When I talk to folk in the freelance recruitment and management industry, they say the most pressing themes being discussed are:</p><p></p><p>COMPLIANCE</p><p>&amp;</p><p>COST</p><p></p><p><strong>Compliance</strong> - It&#8217;s all about making sure you&#8217;re not falling foul of IR35, contracting, employment law, etc.</p><p>There&#8217;s so much complexity and confusion, they just want it resolved, so they can do the work with brilliant freelancers.</p><p>So there&#8217;s loads of platforms who are focusing on compliance. Tick.</p><p></p><p><strong>Cost</strong> - Freelancers are seen as expensive, and often sit on a different budget line to employees. So it looks like a high cost per day, despite being more productive, more specialised and cost effective.</p><p>But cost base is important to all businesses. So there&#8217;s loads of platforms who are focusing on track and manage cost. Tick.</p><p></p><p>But what about the freelancers?</p><p>What about the &#8220;commodity&#8221; that all of this is supposedly meant to be managing, optimising, leveraging?</p><p>Cost and Compliance are wholly internally facing concerns - and finance and legal concerns - not even a concern about quality, creativity, impact, or even ROI.</p><p>Only focusing on INTERNAL metrics (cost and compliance) ignores the core thing you&#8217;re trying to do, work well with EXTERNAL people.</p><p>No Tick.</p><p></p><p>So, I&#8217;m adding a third C, which hirers need to start thinking about. Community. Connection. Cohesion. Communication. Collaboration.</p><p>If you&#8217;re not investing in the experience of working with you, not building relationships, and looking to retaining your best&#8230;</p><p>Compliance gets more complex.</p><p>Cost goes up.</p><p>ROI goes down.</p><p></p><p>I&#8217;ve spoken about the commercial value of retention strategies before. This is all part of the same concern. If you&#8217;re only looking at risk (compliance) and cost (optimisation), you&#8217;re not thinking about quality or ROI.</p><p>Hirers will need to shift to considering the ROI of their relationships with their freelancers, not just the direct impact on the P&amp;L.</p><p>It&#8217;s one of the reasons we&#8217;re starting with <a href="https://the.independency.co/freelance-pool-feedback.html">Freelance Feedback</a> - if you don&#8217;t know where the issues lie, you&#8217;re losing your most expensive asset: talent. Hiring costs too much, so re-using trusted talent is essential. But if they&#8217;re walking out of the door after each project, you&#8217;re just throwing good money after bad.</p><p>All the rest comes once you know where the issues are.</p>
