---
title: "What's happening at The Independency Co this month?"
description: "A few bits of news from The Independency Co. this month."
date_posted: 2025-10-30
original_url: "https://theindependencyco.substack.com/p/whats-happening-at-the-independency"
source: substack
layout: note
toplevelsubnav_url: /notes
toplevelsubnav_text: Notes
---

<p></p><p><strong>1/ Working with Department for Business and Trade.</strong> </p><p>DBT and the office of the Small Business Commissioner have been running an open consultancy on new policies for tackling late payments, and we&#8217;ve been feeding in our insights from a self-employment perspective. We hosted a roundtable between the policy team and a number of freelancers who shared their experiences, and thoughts on the new policies. The consultation is now closed, and we expect to hear a response in the new year.</p><p></p><p><strong>2/ Another audit for a Freelance Friendly business</strong></p><p>We&#8217;ve just wrapped another Freelance Feedback audit for a business with a collective of freelancers. This is the most recent audit we&#8217;ve run, and we&#8217;re starting to see a number of key themes reappearing across organisations. I shared some of the insights below - and if you&#8217;re keen to listen to your pool, drop me a note.</p><p></p><p><strong>3/ Redundancy and Self-Employment</strong></p><p>We&#8217;ll be joining the team at <span class="mention-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;name&quot;:&quot;LookUP&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:151112379,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;user&quot;,&quot;url&quot;:null,&quot;photo_url&quot;:&quot;https://substack-post-media.s3.amazonaws.com/public/images/b7dc7f26-2fa8-4be7-84db-ac5ff06962dc_500x500.png&quot;,&quot;uuid&quot;:&quot;2d541267-59fc-46fb-85ff-a36af7dd8fb3&quot;}" data-component-name="MentionToDOM"></span> in November for a morning session supporting those facing redundancy. <a href="https://calendly.com/contact-wearelookup/own-your-story-free-event">Details are here.</a> We&#8217;re also working with <a href="https://clubredundo.com/">Club Redundo</a> to develop something shortly too. Our &#8220;<a href="https://bit.ly/redundancy-to-freelancing">Redundancy to Freelancing</a>&#8221; guide has had over 500 people use it. Which is great, but also &#8230; I wish it wasn&#8217;t neccessary.</p><p></p><p><strong>4/ Content planning for 2026</strong></p><p>I&#8217;m in the middle of planning a series of 12 webinars for 2026, covering topics like MTD, IR35, insurance, contracts, etc, and looking for partners who might be keen to support the programme (either as a brand or as an expert).</p><p></p><p><strong>5/ Leapers survey</strong></p><p>We&#8217;ve passed the 700 participant mark, but still keen to push for 1000 responses. If you haven&#8217;t taken part yet, please do, and please share far and wide. <a href="https://leapers.co/research">leapers.co/research</a></p><div><hr></div><p></p><h1>What are we hearing from freelance pools?</h1><p>For the past three months, I&#8217;ve been working with a number of organisations who have pools of freelancers.<br><br>We run impartial and independent freelance feedback audits to understand engagement, relationships and reputation, so the hirer can spot any issues, frustrations or leaks in their talent pool; and provide guidance on improving things for both sides.<br><br>Whilst every audit provides very different results, there are some frequent themes, which I thought I&#8217;d share for the benefit of anyone working with freelancers.<br><br><strong>1/ Hesitation to ask:</strong> most of our hiring organisations are a little worried to ask for feedback, concerned it might expose issues. No-one likes receiving bad feedback - but having hard evidence of what is working, and what is causing issues is essential, so you can focus on what matters most.<br><br><strong>2/ Bloated Dormancy:</strong> there&#8217;s often a mismatch between number of people in a pool, and the volume of work. perhaps the organisation went on a &#8220;finding freelancers spree&#8221;, so they have potential people should a brief come in, or perhaps they worked with people once, and haven&#8217;t again, but never formally or informally parted ways. This creates a false over-confidence in &#8220;having people we can use&#8221; and a frustration from freelancers they&#8217;ve never had work from you.<br><br><strong>3/ Tangible vs Possible:</strong> There&#8217;s a tension in asking around project availability. On the one hand, there&#8217;s lots of last minute briefing &#8220;are you available on monday?&#8221;, and on the other there&#8217;s lots of &#8220;there might be a brief&#8221; without something being confirmed. It&#8217;s a challenge for both the hirer and freelancer.<br><br><strong>4/ People beat Process:</strong> The most common positive feedback is always about specific people who make working together a positive experience. We always get feedback on specific named individuals who just made the whole thing great. Where automation might improve process, people improve relationships.<br><br>It&#8217;s no longer enough to just have a list of email addresses of people you think are waiting for a brief. <br><br>Good collaboration with good freelancers takes good design.</p><p>If you&#8217;re keen to audit your own pool, drop me a note, and we go much further than just asking. We work with businesses to help them identify how to better engage, support and retain their top freelancers too.</p><div><hr></div><p>That&#8217;s all from me<br>&#9996;&#65039; mk</p>
