---
title: "In conversation with struggling strategists."
description: "Key themes I'm hearing from strategists who are out of work right now."
date_posted: 2025-10-08
original_url: "https://theindependencyco.substack.com/p/in-conversation-with-struggling-strategists"
source: substack
layout: note
toplevelsubnav_url: /notes
toplevelsubnav_text: Notes
---

<p>In the last 12 months, I&#8217;ve spoken to... probably close to 50-60 strategists who have lost their jobs, have been freelancing for a while but all wind has been let out of their sails in a very quiet market, or are new to the role and wondering how to make progress.<br><br>I listen to each individual situation, because no-one is alike, yet there are some common themes, and I thought I&#8217;d share what I&#8217;m hearing - in the hope that a few more feel seen, heard, and less like they&#8217;re the only one experiencing this.<br><br>This isn&#8217;t a reflection on how strategy works (or doesn&#8217;t work) at the moment - there are plenty of those here already. <br><br>This is more about the human experience of people working (or not working) in the roles, and what people are feeling.<br><br><strong>1. Age/Experience</strong> - so many folk feel like they&#8217;re &#8220;aging out&#8221; of work, perhaps they&#8217;re no longer able to find roles because their experience goes against them, i.e. too expensive, too senior, just fewer roles at that level, even accused of no longer understanding culture.<br><br><strong>2. Inexperience</strong> - at the other end of the age spectrum, it&#8217;s proving to be even harder to get into junior roles, and there&#8217;s an expectation that you already should have the skills, in order to get the job.<br><br><strong>3. Generalism vs Specialism</strong> - lots of senior folk have built broader careers, with no clear throughline of one deep specialism, but a toolbox of skills (the T-shape or M-shape). Yet much hiring is looking for deep focus over broad applicability.<br><br><strong>4. Stability</strong> - so many businesses are moving to FTC models, over perm employment, which is removing any sense of stability or loyalty - whilst increasing anxiety and churn (and letting organisational knowledge walk out the door).<br><br><strong>5. Expanded responsibilities</strong> - job descriptions and requirements are ballooning, expectation on an individual looks more like what a team&#8217;s job, not just one person. And it&#8217;s burning people out. And remuneration doesn&#8217;t match.<br><br><strong>6. AI</strong> - a belief that AI is an amazing tool to accelerate strategy, not replace it - yet at the same time, a concern that the tools are providing &#8220;good enough&#8221;, and an excuse to reduce headcount.<br><br><strong>7. Lost Passion</strong> - a split here, many say they still love the job, the industry, and want to get back to having that passion for the work again - and the other half more just fed up, and looking outside of the industry to do something completely different.<br><br><strong>8. Diversification/Repositioning</strong> - lots of people recognising/actively redefining their work, their role, to be something different or adjacent. Some proactively, some enforced.<br><br><strong>9. Confidence</strong> - every day that passes, every &#8220;thanks but no&#8221;, every ghosting - leads to a little bit of confidence being chipped away at, and self-questioning.<br><strong><br>10. Connection</strong> - Most just want to have a chat, to feel some reassurance that it&#8217;s not just them - yet, it doesn&#8217;t make the situation any less challenging. I&#8217;ve heard some of the darkest stories about where people are financially and emotionally.</p><p></p><h3>What does this mean, and what can we do about it?</h3><p>This is just one tiny slice of the overall population, but in conversations with others in the industry - the overwhelming feeling for many is anxiety.</p><p>There&#8217;s a bigger conversation that needs to happen around how we treat people we hire, and how we treat them once they leave our businesses. There&#8217;s a systemic issue around how respected talent are in the creative industries generally.</p><p>There&#8217;s clearly a need to for better horizontal support - not at an employee level, but at a sector and capability level, perhaps provided by communities, by charities, by industry bodies - which invests in career long support, not just whilst you&#8217;re on &#8220;contract&#8221;. </p><p>And looking towards organisations like <a href="https://nabs.org.uk">NABS</a>, they already do a huge amount in the role of support function. But we also know how stretched charities are in terms of funding.</p><p>Communities play a role too - but often don&#8217;t have capacity to go beyond resources and peer-connection. Part of the work around the <a href="https://the.independency.co/community-coalition">Community Coalition</a> aims to maximise the small amount of resources we have to a wider group. </p><p>But that&#8217;s for freelancers, and the above conversations are not just with the self-employed. </p><p>Perhaps another coalition between strategy communities such as <span class="mention-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Mark Pollard, Strategy Friend&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:93338124,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;user&quot;,&quot;url&quot;:null,&quot;photo_url&quot;:&quot;https://substack-post-media.s3.amazonaws.com/public/images/266183b4-9575-4c29-a0a0-a261e89a7226_964x964.jpeg&quot;,&quot;uuid&quot;:&quot;07b2dd67-f6de-43e1-8bb9-4e50d5fa865f&quot;}" data-component-name="MentionToDOM"></span>&#8217;s Sweathead, Kim Mackenzie&#8217;s Ladies who Strategize, <span class="mention-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Graeme Douglas&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:3985416,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;user&quot;,&quot;url&quot;:null,&quot;photo_url&quot;:&quot;https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbc1bb8be-3205-4498-b261-7bc673381e72_400x400.jpeg&quot;,&quot;uuid&quot;:&quot;82615b20-d7d1-4fce-898b-f20660a50219&quot;}" data-component-name="MentionToDOM"></span>  new whatsapp group, <span class="mention-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Jasmine Bina&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:1792248,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;user&quot;,&quot;url&quot;:null,&quot;photo_url&quot;:&quot;https://substack-post-media.s3.amazonaws.com/public/images/b276dd13-6180-4d10-a2de-12e68f076758_1280x1280.jpeg&quot;,&quot;uuid&quot;:&quot;ea67f4da-f609-4579-8df5-50e1974af399&quot;}" data-component-name="MentionToDOM"></span> &#8217;s collective, Julian Cole&#8217;s group, <span class="mention-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Baiba Matisone&quot;,&quot;id&quot;:4130731,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;user&quot;,&quot;url&quot;:null,&quot;photo_url&quot;:&quot;https://substack-post-media.s3.amazonaws.com/public/images/180b1708-7a2c-4be6-8089-16ad3be73529_864x864.jpeg&quot;,&quot;uuid&quot;:&quot;a0171691-c415-4c54-be01-76ae34f412b7&quot;}" data-component-name="MentionToDOM"></span> &#8216;s following, etc. etc. etc. could connect in a meaningful way to provide some sort of shared pastoral support and resources for those who need it. There are lots of us, and collectively we can probably have greater impact.</p><p>At the very least though, being open to listen and converse with colleagues, I hope, offers some small form of support, making people feel a little less isolated as they go through a challenging period in their work, and life.</p>
